

Script

OK.  I've got a ham sandwich here.  Is it energy or is it information?

where in the field of activity can you derive pleasure.

I keep wanting to run into kate.

school made more sense in high school. 

oil, chemical and atomic workers int'l union. 

find some teeth, buddy. 

donald judd had teeth. 

there's a part of me that goes out and meets something in each of these things that I see.  why am I so eager to identify?  

I don't think it's ever been exhausted, that sense of potential. 

life as an uncoverable aesthetic phenomenon.  

there is no illusionism in that work.  that is real blood.  this is consistent in Athey's work. 

I'm not interested in ideas of shock.

confusing ideas of community and identity. 

you agree to have sex with someone and you are objectified.  that is the coming together. 

Warhol and the transference of risk. 

snapshot.  that sense of I'll shoot you and you'll shoot me. 

the sense that the world exists through the camera.  more formally devised. 

my relationships to the S.M. community was never highly sexualized. 

an utter resistance to generalization. 

the last thing he wanted to do was make another Newman. 

coarsen the grid of control to set loose new elements of sensation for society/culture to deal with. 

the cultural formation of identity is a serious problem. 

wildness.  you are unaware of what rules are being followed, if any. 

a gestural mark is likely to summon a personality type rather than call attention to wild sensation.  wild perception.  wild thought. 

"the wild."  2" x 8'.  linear patterns.  not so even as to be w/o event. 

like the cry of the gull in the vastness of the arctic tundra.

titles.  after the fact.  not ideas for paintings.  they come after the fact.

the risk of not naming. 

it might work or not work.  its always on that edge of not working.  and we are all going to die.  

you have to take numerous variables into account. 

pessimism of the mind, optimism of the will.  abandon critical rationality and embrace a utopian optimism of doing.  

ketchup.  body zone outside common reality. 

the projects that heath makes really address reality. not images or representations of reality. 

artists I've worked with who trade in risk.

the tank man.  Tiananmen  square. 

their projects often cross over the line into reality. 

focus on praxis.  thinking and doing have to go together.  there has to be a messy place where they do. 

to have a reason to go out into the world, I need to exhaust the past.

I need to define a position for my work in relation to powers that be of technology. 

I was born as the me that I am, the me that I know, and that I expect to be, about six years ago.  everything before was gestation, and I am really only six years old. 

get better at pushing from thinking to doing.  I used to be good at this.

oh, you really have to separate what you think of someone from what you think of their work, don't you?  but someone's brilliance (or lack of it) is precisely what makes them attractive.  

to you, robert.

thats all.  see you on tuesday. 

class dismissed.

that's all?  no more questions?  you are all confident that you will bring in three wonderfully interesting materials on Tuesday?  all right.  great.  see you then.

all ideas that I'm truly excited about at the moment require some sort of sacrifice. 

of my comfortable home space. 

of my clothes. 

of the integrity of my beautiful skin. 

of my neutrality as the artist. 

fitting a square peg into a round hole.

tanner's advice: don't traffic in cliches, actually be an outsider artist.  I think I've heard of meat and hair before. 

If I could figure out a form to effectively harness my writing stuff then I would be like ten times as productive. 

If I could figure out how to harness my writing activity I could be like ten times as productive. 

it is important for me to establish a range.  (no, its not a shooting range I'm talking about, folks)

how many people are really killed with guns anyway? 

is there something I could make that would be as satisfying to hold as a rifle? a pacifier for gun owners. 

to have and to hold

to protect and cherish

through sickness and health

till death do us part. 

beuys as an ultimately self-reliant sort of man.  he didn't need elaborate sculptural contrivances, he relies of the strength of direct gestures. 

transformations of the earth. 

it doesn't have to be heavily labored over to be exciting. 

I am sitting alone in a booth. 

an open-mindedness verging on idiocy. 

This is a call to Artists.

NOMART has no Limitations.

It's exciting to see you paint. 

I've never seen you paint before. 

..

Who are you talking to this term?

I'm not really talking to anyone. 

Sometimes you have to do that. 

If I truly believe "everything goes" then I need to implement it in my life.

I feel a little defeated. 

Never fully defeated, but definitely a little defeated.

the secret frame.

that would be great. 

LaCie should make notebooks.

maybe not.  but definitely we should equate the two in a sculptural installation. 

let the default be the state of being. 

let the default become the norm. 

or how to philosophize with a hammer. 

I feel like I've been a little bit duplicitous.

I don't think I'm a great writer. 

text hijacks language. 

I'd like to know what you think language is. 

no concept. 

time

plurality. 

spring time. 

verdant green summer. 

raising a good american daughter. 

there is no end.  this could keep going and going and going and going.  thats the thing with these inhabited fantasies. 

america. 

americana.

fatalistic. 

sense of futility.

fatalistic sense. 

electricity (and magnetism)

Cosmoline oil for storage. 

lord of the flies. 

robert the brave. 

young men don't get raped.

that sort of encapsulated everything so far.  childhood.  I feel like like I need to encapsulate everything so far to be ready to go out into the world.

reverence for looking.  gallery, mum.

Center for Total Patient Care.

beautiful little springer spaniel.

I feel more like a horse these days than a deer (or a dog)  somewhere between a horse and a deer, then.

Shit I don't need--the wasteful life of Robert Twomey.

re-machining the interior.  good-machine becoming.  good-machine releasing. 

good-machines interior loving mind.

you don't strike me as much of a smoker. 

you don't strike me as much of anything. 

hush little baby don't you cry, daddy's gone make everything all right. 

LINAM fault indicator.  N> <N Charge.

I no longer feel inadequate.  I found my own power animal. 

unreconstructed male. 

paternity test.

thoughts on waking.  sunday april 8th, 2006.

manticore. 

I shouldn't have ditched my friends so fast last night.  these moments are fleeting, and am I really that desperate.

I must have slept with Joe last night.  I think he was drawing a self-portrait in bed when I came in. 

warning extremely perishable product.  human blood.  avoid extreme temperatures. 

throwing rocks in the woods. 

anarcho-syndicate.

underlying tensions that do exist.  how do you deal with sublimated impulses and where do they come out.  burning yourself.  sleeping with people.

I am from hands punching into rich, dark soil. 

transference.

I'm interested in the poetry of things.  My idea of what is poetic might be kind of cheesy, but I think there is something good about my directness and literalness. 

reality, like concrete poetry. 

sarah palmer.  srpalmer@ucsd.edu.  619-733-9556.

If I recognize that my major commitment is to a deep search, then I can focus on honing my search methods above all. 

search for a singular form. 

It's hard to argue with craft.  Craft is persuasive.

--free you of the self-reflexiveness of art school. 

comment on the discipline of reducing your world to these clean-edged geometries. 

I'm a bore.

Fuck you.

you are narrating so heavily. 

borders between privacy and legibility.  degrees of opacity.

Art became an antidote to the scientific method.  

mayan text codex bourgeon. 

talk about casting a net. 

how about pitching a tent?

in illustration one is subservient to the other, image and text.

I'm chaotic neutral. 

every time and context has certain trends and desires--we have enough information.  Sheldon wants to see the material exhausted.  When you see a mike kelly show you have the sense that he has really eviscerated something there.  distillations that are powerful (barbara kruger's) vs distillations that are trite. 

In my undergrad we called it DUH, department of undergraduate health, not student health services.  I miss that. 

William Ehlers.  Father of Three Engineers.  Kept the Central Office Running.  We love you Dad.

We love you Dad.

I need to harness this experimentation into some kind of effective form. 

Stop making sense.

I like tracing for putting a demand on hand/eye control and craft to stay within a constraint.  a system of restraint.  struggle!

me, the source material, and the third thing outside of both me and the material: the object.  

being responsible to actualize an idea. 

its a matter of having the discipline to follow an idea through to its end. 

strong clear vision. 

be clinical about it. 

are you out there god, its me monica.  non-reciprocal oral sex--why would anyone deny their reciprocity.  representations that deny the person inhabiting the representation pleasure.  to control this tiny bit of real estate, not engage in pleasure, renders adolescent boys rote masturbators.  holding something back in representation, having only one layer of representation, you render your audience rote masturbators.  

kurt scwhitters.

to finally harness these free spirits is like a betrayal.  

Imagination.  Stories of Science and Fantasy.

Curious Minds.  How a Child Becomes a Scientist.

it is more interesting than if it were actual, because some of these shapes are so surprising.  a hand-drawn aerial view of Niagara falls. 

You're just playing around. 

No, I'm not playing around.  I'm experimenting. 

this might help you to entertain more questions. 

such a particular imagination. 

expansion - contraction.  core action.

proliferation. 

back and forth.  bipolar. 

sat am 4:00.  139  96.

sat am 11:30.  150 77.

mon pm 10:30.  125 77.

tues pm 11:00.  133 77.

wed am 8:00.  136 72.

fri pm 11:00.  135 73.

4/2. 12:20pm.  142 80.

4/26.  9:15am.  144 95.

5/2.  8:00am.  130 63.

7/13.  1:40pm.  144 85.

7/14.  1:50pm.  156 87.

after expanding these concerns, the ideal realization would weave them into a simple form. 

why so complicated?

I get bored with the simple forms. 

why do you have to complicate things for yourself?

make it a principal to not refuse any idea that occurs to me. 

If you are looking for challenge in art you can definitely find it.

I would say I am looking for challenge. 

You can make anything a challenge. 

You can complicate anything for yourself: question why you are painting.  question why you are committing to any particular project.

there is a sickness in new media art.  why aren't the painters at the joel slayton talk? 

Sarah described painting as a physical activity last night.  when she was heavier she did not want to spend as much time on her feet in an athletic sort of painting, so she painted small watercolor paintings. 

I like cursive writing because it all flows together in such a wonderful manner.  I like it very much flowing.

this is my world.  i may not share all of it with people.  but I do think this is how I see. 

In addition to being smart, curious, and a good writer (I think he is), he is also willing to push himself physically.  this is something not everybody will do.  he'll sort it out in the end.

art pupa.  larvae.

allegations of personal misconduct.  falseness in personal relations.

The American Cement Building. 

released under my own recognizance. 

Integrated Turbomachinery.

kinesthetic and vestibular senses.

It seemed like the expressive potential was there. 

the most beautiful office building in the world. 

an expression of self through images and words.  

seeing + reading, (LA  NY)

I look down at my wallet, and it is full of blood.

Keith Tyson's art machine interests me for opening/re-animating traditional art forms in a new way.  It transforms the production of relatively traditional art products into a programmatic work flow.  A series of discrete steps are shown or described for the viewer--the initial generation of concept, the iteration sheets, and the final piece.  This device casts the artists imagination as a responsive mechanism, reacting to the initial outputs of a dumb system.  It makes the creation of the work a very performative process.

putrescent art dream. 

putrescent larval maggoty art show. 

contemporary fine arts gallery--

monolithic thinking machine. 

blind walk. 

focus on the situation and event rather than on the establishment and maintenance of an infrastructure or an institution.

don't call me angry mother-fucker.

don't call me angry mother-father.

caution overhead power.

I just talked to moriah for a while about our recent fights.  she talked and aired some thoughts, but I don't think anything was really resolved.  I'm left with a feeling.  I am frustrated by the failure of our communication. 

'you have to be master of your own idiom.'  what?  'idiom.'  i don't even know what that means. 

i just had a dream that my brother called me, sobbing, to say that our grandmother had another fall and that she had an infarction of some type and an embolism

at that point the message dissolved into sobbing and the dream dissolved and it was over.  I found it very upsetting.  I checked my phone as soon as I got up. 

reaction against my dad's verbal diarrhea. 

what are you doing?

oh.  just taking a break.  

you have to go in and gnaw at it.  no act of expansion contraction immersion retraction cyclical strokes is going to pull it out.

all the public spaces on this campus are open and unprotected. if you sit on any proffered furniture you are on the exposed outward face of buildings and thrust into public space.  if they cared about the welfare of their students they should construct more protected courtyards.

(working)  natalie.  upstairs.  jennifer.  sandra.  calit2.  woodshop.  number 7.

(living) William's.  vaf natalie.  evelyn. vaf 255.  vaf jennifer.  vaf natalie.  vaf veronika.  williams.

its not like unconditional love, its more like every condition is met. 

these days I've noticed that I don't seem to want to hook up with anyone unless I am drunk.  this is a little troubling. 

for her.  litany, love. 

Goodnight.

sweet dreams.

I love you. 

I will talk to you tomorrow.

the kids at Abercrombie keep getting younger.

I just saw a fierce little warrior boy in ugg boots.  

I came down from the high country today.  

I came down from the hills.

I came down from the mountain.

I came down from the high country. 

I came down from the mountains. 

I went looking for my daughter. 

plane without a pilot. 

I feel like I just came down from the mountains. 

Attention.  you are entering an injury free zone.  leave unsafe work practices and attitudes behind!  you must wear: a hard hat.  work boots.  appropriate eye protectors.  work gloves.

powerplus 1-800-863-2524.

she doesn't have any language of her own yet, so I can't talk to her. 

its weird, everyone here is limping. 

why is it that i only seem to really want female companionship at night?

moriah is interested in the psychology of why i think I could be with abby for the rest of my life.  

abby thinks that question could refer to two different things--something and desire.

listening to heartbeats.  Jennifer's last class.  quilting.  sadness.

2006 - under the sign of the snake

122000661 0132 11023 11599.

4217 6613 5657 7155  7155 418  09 09  

D5350290 227 51 4813

A06329551 21822051779645

5329 0534 4793 9390  9380 850  02 08

freshman year of high school was my introduction to the mysteries of computer programming.  that was when I discovered that I had a facility for programming, and I explored it.  I must have been drawing for my whole life at that point.  so you could say I got a relatively late start on programming. 

junior and senior years of high school were my introduction to the mysteries of electronics.  analog and digital circuit design.  microprocessor circuit design.  the ability to calculate the behavior of a circuit before it is even built.  a truly designed system.  amplifiers, filters. 

join us. 

2006 summer internships. 

open, honest, and responsible. 

be better. 

institute for nonlinear science. 

I wish I were more obsessed with art. 

I wish I were legitimately obsessed with anything, rather than being stuck with nagging irritation I can't dismiss. 

I'm excited about the interdisciplinarity of it. 

I'm just trying to look up a piece of software...

Here.  There's a software version of you. 

an accumulation of small failures.

bodies need electricity too.  

who are these people?  they're important in some histories.  they are just left out of our histories.  

dada.  purposeful irrationality.

suha.

fuck.

operating on two levels.  total work transparency.  though I began with projects, I naturally started thinking about the processes by which things are made.  it may be sickening to think in circles like this, but you have to trust that you will change for the better as a result of a more considered perspective.  seeking the high ground for a better vantage point.   things I have: energy, openness, desire, ideas, thoughts, ideals. things that are liabilities: I don't honestly think I have any liabilities.

i like these people who can make something in all situations--it demonstrates a robust art practice.  an art that can be put on and taken off, like pants, which develops holes, like socks, which is eaten like a piece of pie, or abandoned with great contempt, like a piece of shit. 

run experiments on yourself.  be clinical about it.

run a process on an idea.

immersion in a hypersaturate solution then retreat.

make things to fill in holes, satisfy lack, replace missing things. 

how much of that came through your experiences?  thats it.  i cant see them anywhere.

not too heroic.

fantasy and reality.  that book is a mix that is almost impossible to untangle.

placate caution and restraint with being afraid.

we're still absorbing it, it has to do with the difficulty of getting it down.  an amorphous blob that resisted being put into literary form.

experimentation not vacillation.

if you leave out too many pieces of the puzzle, people don't know what to do with it. 

so, the derivative of cosine is negative sine, and thats the only one I need to know?  I can find everything else out from that. 

while true do. 

eating chalk.  burning arm.  punching walls.

sometimes the hubristic idea that you have implodes. 

fucked up artist.  young men who are married carry themselves differently.  fucker.  fucker.

inverting the typical flow. 

sheldon doesn't like your work.  bring us up to speed on why you did what you did.  in action.  present stuff that is fully resolved.  out there.  a bit risky in places.

operational components of immersion.  direct address of the viewer such that the viewer becomes the subject of the medium.  multimodal.  illusion.  mediation replacing the real.  until the end of the world.  narrative recursion.  creates anxiety.--parallel relationship between the characters of the story and us as readers of the story.  narrativity may be the most potent immersive form.  unlike the modern and postmodern concerns of the 20th century (which on the one hand looked to develop discrete formal language within mediums and on the other hand deconstructed cultural forms to expose their mechanisms of constraint): new media art forms develop mediums of expression in concert with content. 

you can't hit a moving target.  self-reflective self-critical art exposing the mechanisms of constraint you are operating within is only valuable with relatively stable targets, i.e. when you are operating within fixed brackets.  rather than going after exposing structures of control, I would like to demonstrate an alternate sort of flow. 

aiming for fixed targets.

experimental biology.  

echo chamber of ideas. 

i'm testing my deep-rooted confidence in my ability to figure things out, to make things work. 

we're still inventing the medium of computing art.  I want to situate computing in relation to my other interests that don't seem to have a place in computing.  or maybe I should situation my other interests within computing. 

I want to figure out where computing and the arts blends into traditional studio art craft. 

I have these generic images in my head... a man digging a hole, for instance.  where do they come from and how do I get rid of them?

I sucked on Raggedy Andy's pants for two years.

I have these gaps in my memory. maybe I should drink less. 

sometimes I am an associative thinker, but sometimes it is like my thinking is unplugged and words and images come tumbling out with no sense to them. 

canons are something you should be aware of.  indeed. canons are dangerous.  

computers would not be common in households until the 1980s.

at the collegiate level you are expected to expose yourself in critique.  

film like a tape to be executed.  lovely. 

lines of thought and spillage.  leakiness.  you can follow these lines of trains of chains of thought, but at some point there is spillage.  for instance, military--military bleeds into masculinity, macho, etc.

faculty show.  wander alone, then walk around together. 

hyper.  connotes extension and generality. 

The richest form that I have created is the structure of interconnections and juxtapositions in the total body of experiments, projects, and actions--the way in which the projects inform one another to create a rich and dense picture of choice, materials, and meaning.

a tautological statement of nothing.  Tautology (rhetoric), undesirable use of redundant language that adds no information.

a rich and dense picture of choice, materials, and meaning.  i have already externalized this material and embodied it in this form. 

important things to articulate.

dead.  piano.

the place of irreversible destiny.

we can ask ourselves, what is writing today?

impressing velocity.

engines.  a lost physical intelligence.  mr. mansfield.

the analytical engine has no pretensions to originate anything.  it can do whatever we know how to order it to perform.

the idea of making machines to represent yourself or something else.

moriah termed them my transgressions into femininity.

I can say this to you, and you still don't have anything on me.

I don't think I have ever been totally exhausted.

I don't think I have ever been really hurt.

I don't think anything bad has ever happened to me. 

inventiveness.  ingenuity.

Stephen L Talbot.  The future does not compute: transcending the machines in our midst.

pseudo  quasi  spiritual  mystical.

using the oldest memory technology. 

the knife thrower.

what other things have to occur for your _intentions_ to _function_ here.  

no one may ever have the same knowledge again.  

here's my pile of fingernails.  what do you think?

there are certain _subjects_, that if you can find them, can liberate you from those _conventions of production_  it's perfectly essential. 

implies you have a subject.

running overdriven proliferating w/o a brain.  gone wild without control. 

the imagination can take something and bring to it a specificity that is greater than the actual event.  don't privilege (coda) the intellectual over the emotional, over the technological, over the body, over the (d.c. al coda).

Heidegger.  practical concerns, understanding and states of mind can make space expand or contract.

Richard Artswager.  table with pink tablecloth 1964.  not clean.  just real fucking tasteful.  nice and fucking taste real fucking tastefully organized unassailable fucking concept. 

part dog trust me.  

process of reading and writing. 

intentional vs involuntary.

i need your art like I need gold

autobiography.

blending of fact and fiction.

brutality.  physicality.

unsqueamishness.

eat out like a termite at the edges of your own experience. 

eat out like a termite. 

eat out. 

here is a parade of unfinished work.  

total capture. 

hell.

orange county vector control district.

the comical powers he becomes endowed with after the utterance of a religious text... parodies the action of quoting from Bibles or other religious intentions. 

slim shady.  remember me.  don't you remember me.

Origin of the world picture machine. 

I. 

II.

III.

IV.  The question concerning technology.

I'm going to fix everything. 

one reason you decided to be hard was to take this on as subject matter in an art piece. 

a revelation of art energy made visible in short period of time.  illusion is a key factor in arresting or slowing the energy flow from the art object to the onlooker.  the rigor with which these artists (and others) deny any viewing of their works outside the non-illusionistic limits they have prescribe.  Le Va, like many of the other artists in this exhibition, willfully changes the circumstances in which he works challenging in a direct manner  it became apparent that these artists cared about a set of ideas which include responses to materials, time, and creative acts which absolved them from..the most obvious way to develop is by working through as many problems as ambition, time, and money will allow.  one of the most interesting characteristics of post war american art is the speed with which it reveals itself... one becomes acutely aware of time as an independent element as one becomes aware of human energy as an element of time.  a revelation of art energy made visible in a short period of time seems

This relates to medicine, or what people call alchemy or Shamanism, though that should not be overstressed.  For me it meant the continuation of threads in my biography that had led me to scientific and biological experiments at Rhindern.  Now through art this was brought to a higher level of application.  Out of it came the Theory of Sculpture.  By that I mean that I saw the relationship between the chaos I had experienced and a sculptural analogy.  Chaos can have a healing character, coupled with the idea of open movement which channels the warmth of chaotic energy into order or form.  Objects like crystal came before the theory, but now I began to see how structures can be created which relate to every kind of life and work.

Shamanism: at a serious level it is a reminder of a human consent without which we would be drastically impoverished: the need to come into intense physical and psychological contact with the material world, to understand and feel its energetic substance rather than skim over the surface of experience.  Without this the process of life is perilously abstract.  

When people say that shamanistic practice is atavistic and irrational, one might answer that the attitude of contemporary scientists is equally old-fashioned and atavistic because we should by now be at another stage of development in our relationship to material.  So when i appear as a kind of shamanistic figure or allude to it, I do it to stress my belief in other priorities and the need to come up with a completely different plan for working with substances. 

My personal history is of interest in so far as I have attempted to use my life and person as tools. 

The object is intended as a transmitter radiating ideas from a deep background in time through an accretion of layers of meaning and biography functioning like a Faraday Cage in which the power is retained through a kind of grid.  The object transmits while the text demonstrates.

The outward appearance of every object I make is the equivalent of some aspect of inner human life.

It is certainly an equivalent of the pathological state mentioned before, and expresses the need to create a space in the mind from which all disturbances were removed: an empty insulated space.  Within this empty space investigations can take place, and from this concentration new experiences can emerge.  This is a prerequisite for every experiment.

minimal coded gesture.

sign linked machines. 

a story of constant interruptions. 

well, I am confident that I am doing interesting things.  

this is the past, this is trying to put things together to make some history. 

this is the present.  this is immediate, this is more real. 

here is my framing device. 

part of a lecture machine is the lubrication of anchors of narrative.

intentions can be generative or stifling.  the issues that are at stake in the work and in your critique of it. t

trying to create conflict in yourself. 

arrive at a decision of a project to commit to out of desire, not out of disgust.  

here's a strategy: make these drawings until I have exhausted this type of drawing as a meaningful way of working, then move on...  operate through a series of exhaustions.

a project has edges, it ends.  it is over. 

have you applied that kind of programmatic (language generation, etc) thinking back to this process you are working on.

working from a place of disgust is not necessarily a bad thing, I suppose.  I can see two ways of working, out of dissatisfaction with what you have already made, or out of anxiety for not having made anything, and I definitely prefer the first. 

well Vollmann's not doing strongly autobiographical work any more, but he certainly did before so maybe you need to work through that stuff first and then get on to other researched, intellectual/academic things.

there is no such thing as a definitive statement of my aims and interests, so any thing I write feels like an loose and unconsidered claim.  secondly, I am using snooty vocabulary, words which I am not sure of the meanings of.  also, I think I've never gotten professional feedback on my writing about my art, which I think would be a real help if I could. 

some thoughts prior to my first year review.  

I like talking with people about my work b/c conversation is one key way to communicate meaning, and one way I can continue to sculpt the piece is by talking. 

I have decided to show you the stuff that I have been working on, which implies that: (1) I am interested in the process of invention and think that it is worth discussing, and (2) I believe that this sort of collection of stuff functions as a visual communication. 

I have put some effort into the arrangement and presentation of the material and there is some work space aesthetic, but while I wanted to develop an accessible form of presentation, I was not interested or willing to push very far in developing this collection of material as a form.  It was most important to get the material together and up.  

Three boards, Energy-Engine-Frame.

Visual art does not require a verbal explanation to function.  it is a visual communicator whether or not I add another verbal gesture, that takes some of the pressure off of me. 

I remain open to reconsider my project at any point.  So a good project should be able to incorporate that self-examination and fluidity.

How much is my work a product of my working space, in this case my nomadic lifestyle and my lack of permanent, white walled, ventilated space?  To some extent I feel my process should be able to continue independent of my context (it should have integrity), but I realize that my work would much more resemble traditional, studio crafted objects if I had that space to work in.

they're all suckling at the power teat.

log in a deterministic machine.

probabilistic language vs deterministic. 

the inside world and outside world together, a seamless reality to be understood. 

so make my first functional food snake chain to try to get it to work.  my what an impressive physical specimen.  the first function food snake chain.  I won't get anywhere if I don't get to ration.  I'm working up at the top of the waterfalls so everything cascades down.  Time for body.  where the woods.  when they're nearly asleep.  I'm in problem-solving mode and I know what my 2 problems are and I think they reduce to one simple problem. 

middle school was a wash.  Art class was good and so was speech and theater.  being weird seemed very important.  and I liked playing the piano still.  

when I was working in art class I wasn't too concerned.  I was inventing and building contraptions in my room and over at Adam's house.  Seeing Scott invent things too or watching him compose music was inspiring. 

I did formal things before, but my thinking has changed.  There is no way to turn off no way to unlearn new understanding so here I am.  Driven by dissatisfaction and inadequacy and a confidence in myself.  

Before all of this I was living with Abby, though I never knew she was a binge eater.  I was of course happy to have her lead.  She bought the condoms the first time.  Sometimes I don't want to lead first or say how I want it to be.

I'm not "in love" with you, though I have thought about it a lot.  Sometimes I have wished we were in love like that.  

seek a refuge in craft.  The thing you make becomes an island.  The trail of things proof of having been there.  

Why don't I sift my own output for some underlying meaning.

People could be really surprised because they don't know what I am capable of.  I am happy that no-one has the answers for me.  I get to be a strong, self-determined man.  I want to surprise them.  I don't know what comes next.

hold onto these anchors but develop the whole in a way that you do not lose the value of the individual series, but rather build into a more complex objects.  a process of research to elucidate the underlying connections that exist between these pieces of material that interest me, and fold these threads into a unified form.  determine that form through experimentation.  make it autobiographical (the story thus far, bildungsroman) to be done with that.

It asks you to take it seriously.  It's not made out of clowns noses. 

Where is the real man or real woman in relationship to work.  is it in the factory?  is it in the coal mines.  is it in throwing rocks at animals?

I did laundry with zero sock loss today. 

I find that I can't love any one of these ideas by itself.  I could take one and finish it lovingly, but that doesn't have anything to do with real desire, it's just about responsibility in craft. 

a hypertext.  a blah blah blah.  fuck.

another character could be the art consumer.  reading art books.  talking about artists they like.  seeing shows. 

if I were working in a painting studio I am sure I would be making things that looked a lot more like traditional art products.

Its important for me to reject a lot of what I do. 

Forward progress, at last.

I don't really like my handwriting that much.

They are an interesting crowd, the Sons and Daughters of Rhodes Scholars.  The Daughters of the American Revolution.

that feeling of almost physical rejection.  

being outside makes me want to be outside.

being inside makes me want to be outside.

The symmetry of form attainable in pure fiction cannot so readily be achieved in a narration essentially having less to do with fable than with fact.  Truth uncompromisingly told will always have its ragged edges.  

one of the works main ambitions was to convey a sense that dance was everywhere. 

Sporting events are very much like theater.  They do the same play, but it's different every night.  There's both discipline and creativity.  There's visualization in wrestling, you're on top and you think, 'Okay, if I hit his arm there I can get around here,' and you see yourself do it.  Same as acting.  They have a goal and they go after it, and out of going after it their character will be revealed. 

Thinking doesn't mean being self-conscious.  It means watching the ball and thinking about how it's going to curve.  Then you might actually hit it. 

loose geek hater group. 

utopian and dystopian visions. 

i have these different pieces of things and I don't know how to put them together, but I think that is actually a good thing.  

Oh yeah baby, we're wrestling now. 

art is an artifact upon which some person or persons acting on behalf of a certain social institution has conferred the status of candidate for appreciation, in a persuasive manner. 

Barthes.  concept of anchorage.  text functions to tie down the possible proliferation of meanings that an image might have. 

things that computers can be used for beyond representation.

the story of: science, engineering, art, development, desire. 

I want to lose things.  Then I have something to miss.  Like ending a romance and losing that tie to a person.  Something to regret.  Something to long for.  

autobiographical/therapeutic monologue, eh?

a heavy revisionist.

self censor.

I just haven't felt like painting, which is bad, because I used to like painting so very much it changed my world for me.  So I thought I could make breakup paintings about the loss of this connection.  My feelings changed.  My perspective shifted.  I want something bigger. 

I wanted to do something more direct. 

I miss using the brush and pencil and thinking about those things. 

I miss working through a canvas. 

I stopped coming up with attractive ideas of paintings to make

I questioned the value of a painted image too much to keep doing it. 

Is Painting sad that I am not painting any more? 

I am sad that I am not painting any more, and painting is not a person and painting does not have any feelings and painting does not care. 

I didn't stick it out.  

If you think too much about an idea, it goes bad. 

I miss painting. 

So why not paint again?

I can't think of anything good to paint. 

So don't. 

But I wish I were making paintings. 

Then do it. 

But I can't think of what I have any reason to paint.  So it is not good enough.  I want to do ideas that feel like they need to happen. 

I ran past my capacity to make meaningful decisions and take meaningful action.  When I look at my unfinished paintings that is what I think.  Ugh and boy do I have a lot of them. 

I think I like art because it makes me sad.

I look at what I've made and it seems inadequate. 

What does that have to say about me, my ability, my opportunities, etc--aside from the obvious--

I don't call it failure because I don't believe in failure for myself.  I believe I can always draw something from experience. 

chain of fools. 

I am good at generating inadequate art ideas.  It (almost) just happens. 

I've become very good at coming up with inadequate art ideas. 

I need a less articulated object so it can be open to multiplicity.

It doesn't have to be intricate.

Once it is a machine I can program it. 

I get to be a mechanic and engineer. 

Lecture machine.  Stupid book.

my husband is tender. 

he will care for me. 

my father will nurture me.

nurture me. 

care for me. 

thinking of wounds and hands makes me think of adam.  no, nothing makes me think of adam any more.  i don't know him.

thinking of wounds makes me think of surgery. 

my own 2 surgeries. 

and the intensive care heart patients I saw at fairfax INOVA cardiac ward.  that surgery was such a trauma to their body his chest was swollen like a pillow and they needed the pump and the machines to keep them alive.  their body was broken.  

Student loans must be repaid unless they are cancelled due to death or total and permanent disability. Plan to pay your loans back! Perkins Loan Cancellation

Both the Federal Stafford and Federal Perkins Loans may be canceled if you die or are totally and permanently disabled, assuming that the lender (the school or its servicer, for Perkins loans) receives documentation.

However, you may also be able to cancel repayment of a Perkins loan based on the type of work you do after you leave school. Read your promissory note to learn your options. 

all this reading is like revving up the flywheel.

the two-stroke cycle is good because there is no directional order.  all motion could be forward or backward, halting, pausing, etc., but will take you into either one or the other of these phases.  because you are pinned in the center, there is nowhere to move but around. 

i aim obliquely at my targets.

its about finding energy within yourself rather than ingesting it from the outside.

But for Jack Kilby, who died Monday at 81, the real prize was watching his "successful solution" to an engineering problem become a ubiquitous part of human life. In his soul, Kilby was an engineer, and proud of it. "It's quite satisfying -- hell, it's incredibly satisfying -- to face some important problem and find a solution that works," he said. "Yeah, scientists get the theories. But engineers make them work. And the engineer has the added challenge of cost, because if your solution works but it costs too much, there will never be any application."

Whenever people would mention that Kilby was responsible for the entire modern digital world, he liked to tell the story of the beaver and the rabbit sitting in the woods near Hoover Dam. "Did you build that one?" the rabbit asked. "No, but it was based on an idea of mine," the beaver replied.

Walking around with nails in my mouth.

spitting

i spit nails.

I don't know what these are made of.  I don't know where they came from.  I don't know what they do, if they are inducing current in my mouth.  They could be electrodes.

Sometimes we want to act like machines.  To produce as much and as quickly as possible.

Over there it is easy to decipher who is who.  everyone should be wearing IR patches.

clean.  not messy.  I want to be clean!

I need to face the possibility that I may be boring, that I may be entirely typical.  And then what am I going to make art about?

black anti reflective eye-paint would look pretty cool, like soldiers and football players in "The Program." 

Keeping with the theme of cool sports paraphernalia, horse ankle wraps look pretty cool as well. (we just saw the Belmont Stakes.)  Afleet Alex won.  but all of the horses have pretty cool ankle wraps. 

ones

tens

hundreds

thousands

.

millions

billions

trillions.

And what is a right angle?

I watch a boxing movie and find myself wishing I were a boxer.  Hop bounce bounce bounce bounce hit. hit. hit.

I make sense. (really, I do).  I'm a regular factory of sense-making.  Its what I'm good at. 

Hyperkinetic and relentlessly inventive?  I wish.

OUTBOUND TO 

WONDERLAND

BOSTON MTA

BLUE LINE

OUTBOUND TO WONDERLAND

A list from the SD Zoo.

The borneo bearcat.

Mei Sheng, the 22 mo old giant panda.

Dad.  Gao Gao, the 13 year old giant panda.

The bactrian wapiti.  All members of my giant imaginary menagerie.

Whats that thing with pointing your video camera and capturing things to take them home?  Is it about ownership?  

I have an undisciplined/unedited desire to capture everything.  What am I afraid of not having. 

It would be so much easier to crawl inside someone else and hide. 

I'm a good boy.

This is my engine.  We all have one.  But this one is mine.

unfortunately, I don't think there is such thing as a definitive statement on any one of these projects.

unfortunately, I don't think there is a conclusive statement in any one of these projects. 

the tinkerer tries to figure out how things work. 

fold around the pivot and expand into a new dimension.

fold, fold, fold, and expand the object into an expansive multi-dimensional structure.  fold it into another dimension.  fold, fold, fold and open up an elaborate multidimensional structure.

fold fold fold and expand into

the programmer works on his computer.  keeps his hands clean.  

the tinkerer takes things apart and puts them back together to understand how they work.  to varying degrees of success.  his studio is littered with partially dismantled shit.  he tried to take this approach to art but hasn't had any real success.  

he works near the science complex, a glowing, always on appliance of scientific investigation, a factory of that particular limited type of rational empirical knowledge.  The research complex is in effect a large mechanism; money and electricity are fed in as fuels to drive the engines, and crystalline structures of self-referential self-validating knowledge are extruded out in an endless process.  It exists in the dark and is lit internally, 24-7.

"She'd been having segmentation faults."

The tinkerer has not had success yet possibly in part because of his fundamental misconception of art as a single set thing, that can be taken apart and understood.  Try as he might to describe things as contained systems with specific functions and effects, his understanding is constantly reframed around nothing but his own interests, and so his subjective desire becomes the entirely unavoidable central factor to be understood, and the only driving force and path of entry into his art world.  To some extent (at times) he feels that the smoothly functioning mechanisms of his thought choke on this, art, and that he can not begin to understand this slippery, elusive field with his particular, limited, but overdeveloped facilities and he is in fact quite silly and stupid. 

In another part of the landscape, he gets up and works with his body.  He builds a house.  He hauls dirt.  He puts up fences.  There is no end to the labor.  His existence is a site of constant manufacture and production.  He moves material.

He believes that there is salvation through work.  That steady, consistent efforts will get him somewhere.  He desires discipline, ethic, and demonstrable progress. 

He sees a lot.  Thought races ahead. 

misplaced faith that it will all come together. 

"sometimes, when I want to move real fast, I have that feeling that flesh is a burden, like technology is a burden.  the world is the same way.  you're held back by the clunkiness of all of the materials that you have to push around just to make something happen."

"its too much of a burden to push all of this meat around, to get anything done."

The scientist died.  And his body was absorbed into the land.  his body was frail, and could not have lasted long in this world.  The engineer is negotiating with the artist.  There is something else that hasn't been fully turned on yet.  There are problems of seeing. Faith.  There is an optometrist in town. 

The rock farmer.  He pushes rocks around the fields. 

The scientist is a ridiculous creature, frail and myopic.  His head is very heavy and his neck is sore.  Science didn't give you your intelligence. 

The other wanders the high country. 

The engineer is so damned pragmatic.

To wrap my arms around everything. 

I. induction

get rid of your clothes.  cut your hair.  put on a new uniform. 

I spend time searching for artistic role models.  "Intellectual heros."  what if my dad was a secret artist.  Robert Rauschenberg.  Jasper Johns.  Walt Whitman.  artistic father figures.  my real dad. 

The labs.  I keep going there at night, looking in to see what they do.  Some kind of biology.  the glow is so nice at night.  I think it is too late.

It was interesting to get to art because it didn't give up its answers easily.  But why is difficulty a reason to appreciate anything?  And I had some recognized sort of talent.  there has always been doubt about how much I know.  and there is always more out there. 

I have been exploring self-arousal.  self-stimulation.  a feedback loop.  masturbation we call that.  An extreme sort of narcissism.  

I was developing a discipline of the engine, of disassembling and reassembling it.  Or at least that was the line for a while.  Not very disciplined... It would be nice to develop a discipline, to understand, and internalize that understanding.  

Maybe if I project my real self into the corner of the room.

This isn't the place to put these things.  Its a place to lay down structure. 

I haven't done shit yet. 

I haven't done anything yet. 

math got up to 7 + 1313 = 1320, before I had to shut it down and move the mainframe upstairs.  good, steady, dependable work.

the character of the serious artist.  intense gaze.  abstaining from typical dimensions of life.  serious.  insomniac.  sexy.  self-destructive, to some extent.  brilliant.  oh, did I mention sexy.  sexualized.  transgressive.

I have identified as an engineer in the past.  I have a certain literalness that I think comes from that.

It is an elastic, breathing organ that I am trying to develop here: that takes in deeply, draws nourishment, and expels it out again.  

can I breath water? 

lets sing about the rock.

lets sing a song to for all our rocks out there. 

and take all of this and fold it back into visual art.

I haven't done anything satisfactory yet.

I'm consolidating my memory.

it is frustrating to have a body, because it moves too slowly.  the flesh gets in the way.  you have to lug it all around to get anything done.  this makes me want to pull back, dematerialize, to move more quickly. 

proactive contingency machine to create meaning.

Robert Pirsig too, like Whitman, embraced opposites, contradictions and sought to unify.  

data

information

synthesis

alchemy

computation

trasmutation

creation.

statistical generalization

average

normative

input

integration of inputs. 

output.

creation, creativity, 

imagination

empty reductive explanatory models.

we want to hear what you have to say.

mediation or authorship.

developing more complex thought structures.

all I'm really doing is developing more complicated thought structures. 

Walt Whitman

models, role models, and intellectual heroes.

copying specific works in classical art academy tradition.

impossibility of repeating a work.  loss in transmission.  Rx/Tx.

something about Romance.  'Why doesn't she like me' is totally an ego question.  It's not fair to ask.  

you can feel good you took some initiative.

I can let go of my will to make something happen, but I can't let go of my desire.

critical mass theory:

develop a critical mass of content in order to have something to say.  about romance, for example. 

(1) work to assemble that critical mass, through action, agency, disturbance, interpenetration, accumulating ideas and experience -- matter, put shit out there to get a response.  (which is effectively polling your peers)

(2) glom it into something.

making something out of what you read, experience, see, etc., versus coming up with something new.

re-presenting the things you have seen (and valued) vs coming up with something new.

the scientist's observation on music, linearity, in one dimension:

music is like a tape, a program, that is executed sequentially in the forward direction as it is played. 

music is like a program, a tape to be executed in the forward direction. 

music=program=linear tape.

text, books, too, proceed in straightforward linear progression.

music is linear and one-directional, but you can play with time and speed scales for a kind of experience.  this creates a conscious sense in the listener of the structure unfolding across time/tone-space.

as you get to know a song well, the contours of the shape of time/tone space, the patterns themselves become pleasurable in their familiarity.

I want my art to be ________.

it is inadequate until ________.

so I continue.

hidden conditions. 

desire

resistance

activity

the possibility of total union with programming, technology, etc:

programming myself, or programming my life would require me to order things and define a structure for my life.  but all of this writing things down and mucking about in notebooks already a major effort to order things and define a structure.

the allure that there is some possibility there below the surface. the problem with people that they are so fucking private

motherfuckers god damn it!

but now things are coming back into alignment. 

spin-spin-recovery

alignment.

+, -, or otherwise.

this piece works like a math equation.  it makes an equation. 

I'm a good dog.  I'm a good good dog.  I'm a very good boy. 

elective impotence.

pooling contingencies.

illusions of control.

wilful self-destruction. short circuit. undercut. complicate your own facility. 

do what?  because things are too easy?  you don't have enough problems so you have to make your own?  look at you always challenging yourself.

James, you look so happy. 

I often have multiple contradictory beliefs.

Truly.  I believe different things at different times. 

the sense of potential has evacuated

I've been trying to upset myself.  

Well, it worked.  I'm upset.

we have to know what are the known knowns, the unknown knowns, the known unknowns, and the unknown unknowns.  some kind of management philosophy or something.  information management.  (thank you donald Rumsfeld)

slow syrupy

energy. 

beating. 

slow synergy.

nuzzled about my face. 

flirting with science. 

tickle its balls. 

sniff about its crotch. 

chameleon.  ghbbhrlb.

Are you talking about blind people?

I don't think about blind people. 

I don't know any blind people. 

I don't know how they think. 

Its not something I've ever considered. 

I don't make work for blind people. 

narcissistic little magpie. 

crow. 

raccoon. 

shiny bits of foil.

viagra fuck fest. 

have my cake and eat it too.

[living in] the perfect bliss of a memory-free present.

Reference Manuals

TOYOTA -> COYOTE

[seashell radio]

value of functions and functional value of functions

men ruled by superstition (stalker)

What did she say? I don't know is the same as I don't want to know.

why do you not want to accept science into you life?

I made changes quickly without time to process what they meant. 

a series of gradual relapses. 

Relapse and gradual distancing:  TJHSST to Yale.  identification with English Class, Lit, desire to get away from technology Yale. 

Physics, Biomedical Engineering --> Art major.  

Painting, crap job --> Neuroimaging lab.  

Natalie --> sculpture class.

^^^vvv^^^vv^^^vvv^^vv^^vv^^vv^v^v^v---.

studies and literature on art production.  particularly systems analysis. 

bravery. especially traditionally masculine concepts of strength and bravery.

lord of the flies.  savageness especially reversion to more base kinds of living as a reaction to contemporary life. 

programming languages to expressive languages.  Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs by Sussman and Abelson.  Joseph Goguen Meaning and Computation lab.  Harold Cohen.  Ellen Ullman close to the machine.

systems and information analysis.  these writings.  managing my overall production.  Theodor Nelson A File Structure for the Complex, the Changing, and the Indeterminate.  dad's multidimensional factor analysis thesis oxford.

e-mail responder program.

self-reflection rather than activism.

find venues to perform this summer in la Jolla / san diego.

images etc falling on an open eye.  (the video camera)

i have set forth this day to be as attractive as possible.

a plastic project idea, taken through a series of reinventions/transformations. 

a strong central story that people can relate to. as a central structuring axis/spine.

'Art is usually instilled in children at a very young age.'

'So all those things about it being made with my own hands... it's a research project on myself, I'm seeing what are my limits.'

the work conundrum.

polymorphously perverse.

eat when hungry sleep when tired type of buddhism.

i've got all my ideas handy.  i'm immediately ready. 

the australian aboriginal walkabout. 

j.l. - A redeclaration of Dependence - Software Art... 2004.  Read_Me.

what is the biggest project that I can imagine?  why, my thesis project, my dear.

to encapsulate and process all experience I have had up to this point. 

put these experiences in a meaningful constellation. 

previous tactics:

place myself in interchangeable roles with the computer.

I'm just as good at producing nonsense as the computer.  and I do, on a regular basis.

dadaengine term-papers. 

meaningless typing. 

reference manuals, potential of meaning, senseless organization.  

work. habitat vs bruce nauman.  performance art.

hurtful play.

crawl back into a hole and program.

curious minds.

how a child becomes a scientist.

a triangular art show. 

when did you start with the triangles? 

I was one of the first.

you may have some sort of thoughts, but really it's an impulse.

so it's not really an achievement.

liberating art.

make the form first then think what it is.

joy of invention. 

I think the thing are at all work.

I have this feeling like I want to get one over on science and technology.  

He he he he you're inadequate.

I'm more of an engineer than an intellectual.

I have this capacity for production that comes out more from engaging with assignments, other people's projects that greatly exceeds my capacity for engaging my own projects.  MOre of a problem solver engineer than artist .  or rather, I do have not have enough faith in my own ideas as an artist.

comedic interlude.

feel good karaoke:

It is the end of the world as we know it.

just because it feels good doesn't mean it should happen.

a physical torpor has set in.

cyberpunk questions the relevance of a physical body, the definition of consciousness.

hypnotic.  sea.  breathing.

recapture that energy (of the imaginary daughter project)

grossly indiscriminate.

healthily indiscriminate.

you have horrible judgment taste.

indiscriminate

entirely unable (or unwilling) to judge

ontoarcheology.  not interested in indeterminacy, interested in complexity.

a little bit chaotic.  that reflects how it is a chaotic imagination.

a whole class of things that you can't tell whether they are working or not (my lights for example)

I AM PEEING.

That's great.  

If its not in there I'll be so disappointed.

how much for the pony in the window?

the trick pony.

is that where ur looking? 

boys will be boys.

invective

WIDE OPEN

boys will be boys, eh? 

(yeah... with a baseball bat)  I'll bring it.

it's ok to eat fish...

Barter your object.

"Walter."

f___ that!

postpartum depression.  when you have finished with your last project and your new one has not come to life yet.

white-washed academians.

false humility vs. ego.

convince us

that it is interesting to us.

invisible lab.

identity lab.

infinity lab.

messy sloppy crappy shitty crude atavistic shit lab.

craplab.

what is a research focus?

death lab.

quit lab.

wolf.  threat. scary.

gas. powered. saw.

MacGyver Collider.

'all results being true and equal'

they put these things on your head

Ron Clark the decider.

Boys and their toys.  

    their lawn mowers

POLICE DOG		AMERICA'S FINEST.

It can have a number of forms and still be the same thing. 

white noise: more on more on more.

"I'm fairly malleable..."

Twenty-two women and 22 men came in for 2 sessions to our laboratory, where they consumed alcohol (cranberry juice and vodka to blood alcohol level .08) or juice only (cranberry) while viewing sexual films. They completed a computer task to assess their intent to engage in risky sexual encounters.

Interestingly, we found that being sexually aroused was a primary factor affecting sexual decision-making (being sexually aroused increased the amount of sexual risk you were willing to take)

a revelation of art energy made visible in short period of time.  illusion is a key factor in arresting or slowing the energy flow from the art object to the onlooker.  the rigor with which these artists (and others) deny any viewing of their works outside the non-illusionistic limits they have prescribe.  Le Va, like many of the other artists in this exhibition, willfully changes the circumstances in which he works challenging in a direct manner  it became apparent that these artists cared about a set of ideas which include responses to materials, time, and creative acts which absolved them from..the most obvious way to develop is by working through as many problems as ambition, time, and money will allow.  one of the most interesting characteristics of post war american art is the speed with which it reveals itself... one becomes acutely aware of time as an independent element as one becomes aware of human energy as an element of time.  a revelation of art energy made visible in a short period of time seems

language, the universal solvent

monolingual, monocultural

total recall

a manifesto

the man without qualities

I HATE TEXT
I HATE TEXT
I HATE TEXT


-- new notes 20110203 --

please use caution when retrieving your carrion items.

i take all my mess and I put it in books and I put it away. 

searches:
abject technology.
garbage technologies.
disposable tech.
abject materiality.

Etienne Marey.  birds recording.  Think about what the pleasure is in this for you.  feed this back into your process...

self-diagnosis as self-replication

mind-body dichotomies
neck pulse / 
psychological exam

Claes Oldenburg - psychological self-analysis.  should use any means available, right? 

electro-muscular interruption
muscle sabotage
vestibular sense short circuit
lasting harm?

but then, when I get to here, it starts to straighten out and fly right. 

I realized I have been emulating the airplane overhead noise... [with my sound project]

Mania.  is mania a productive creative state?  or do you lose your criticality.  I am prompted by question 505 on the MMPI 1968.

Alfred Kinsey and Josh Harris.  Men driven, megalomaniacal, personally / sexually obsessive. 

white space.  better lighting.  it is downright painful watching yourself perform. I need eye contact front + center. [like Nikki Minaj]

comparing myself to past versions of myself.
comparing myself to how I was before.  
understanding myself now in relation to how I was before. 
comparing myself to other artists. 

If you are going to paint, PAINT, right? 

tendency towards too much.  all inclusive.  reject none.  (accept/reject?)

over-sharing.

Louche.

anodyne.

the need to initiate, advocate.
stand confidently behind what you do.

I HATE TEXT
but it has a rhythm
a visuality
it's so coded.  symbolic decoding to interpret readings.  relatively recent (5K years)

one vs. many.  drive towards quantity. 

making technologies do stupid things.  interest in failure.  a bit dystopian?  luddite?

THE ONLY PROBLEM IS LACK OF CONTEXT.

over-sharing [on considering posting a picture online of my grilled cheese + ham in a tupperware]
but the point of these technologies is relinquishing concern.  not having to worry about whether or not to take that extra photo, save that extra file. 

how broadly do you frame your art? 

NO CONTEXT is different than 
LACK OF CONTEXT
case and point Mike Kelly Extracurricular Reconstruction Project.

in ikea:
a mirror is nice because it is like a perfect image, perfect painting. better than reality even.  b/c it has the positive quality of paintings and photos, but is perfect, changes as you move.  better than reality because it is framed, pictorial.

very nice ikea surf painting/photo., would be a great reminder of San Diego.  PJATTERYD.  photo print on canvas. "sunrise at beach".

PROJECT OF RECONSTRUCTING CONTEXT
of recordings, tracings, transcripts, memories, recollections, past experience.

say it's a fiction and a serious/engineering/utilitarian pursuit.

MLK "I have a dream".  Starts with banking analogies? 

play Chopin. 

Reverie.
reverential.

Robert: germanic, hrod "fame", beraht "bright".
Daniel: hebrew, "My Judge is God".
Twomey: "Sparkles" [Evelyn and Christina]?

Evelyn: from Avelina from Avila, ancient germanic "desired".

text is a trap!

reverie.

Point-wise Mutual Information (PMI)

microcosm
model
simulation.*
*or, do it for real.


what do I want out of the system?
to be disciplined?
to be organized?

what do I want the db or analysis to tell me? 

I want it intervening productively in my head.

recirculation. (feedback, right? cybernetic loop)
----

incandescent sense of possibility in phrases, objects, physical materials. 
previously: that incandescent sense of possibility in painting. 

cue card loop. 
card game with repetition, iteration,
branching possibilities? 
--punch card computing
--textual dialog?

language as a universal connector
like water as a universal solvent
language as a universal solvent

"I shot the lights out."

Dieter Roth as a garbage monster.  black hole.  gaping maw.  Monster (Jay-Z).

--Perfect bliss of a memory free present.
--total recall.

db as global representation. 
for instance, I added new characters to db, but some of them have not said or done anything yet. 

monolingual.
monocultural.


blood    blood tests
blood oaths   blood brothers
blood borne pathogens
HIV, AIDS    now.
-evidence of wounds

Human Readable,
Machine Readable

I feel good about giving my computer some things to do that are going to take some time.  

Sometimes looking at artists (Dieter Roth for instance) is just a way of finding validations for your worst impulses.

this strategy of keeping material in a notebook, transcribing it, doesn't put any burden on the material, doesn't require it to do any work. 

[micro-curation of my recent statements by Meghan Trainor]:
Today is weather I can believe in. 
I tried to offer you some but you were busy with a cardboard box. 

1) Can this system learn to be like someone.  I would like it to get somewhere, to develop some likeness to a person [myself].  (Which could then later be inverted, negated, etc.)
I would like to create some kind of authentic cognitive feedback loop. 
Neural Nets (or some other learning algorithm) trained (y/n) on my interest in / response to its constructions. 

seeded random
random, but repeatable.

select 4 from 14474: (words)
1.828 quadrillion, unordered, no repeats
43.87 quadrillion, ordered, no repeats.
14474/4=3619 n-grams (4-grams) per single random seed.

the long tail.  

Nico V:
performance?  it's time for decisions!
did I use my line?
"language as the universal solvent"
no.  I intended to.  And I thought of it afterwards, but I didn't.
could see it as a creep installation: bunny over here, clowns nose over there, etc.

[I'm] so beautiful.  so beautiful. 
So long as I'm not killing myself on the inside.

credit cards.
online shopping. 
more limits of virtuality.
realities that can't be recuperated by rhetoric of virtuality.

accept/reject paradigms. 

opencv haar-classifier as an actor with pictorial, compositional agency. 
which suggests the possibility of doing things specifically so that the computer can see me and register my presence.

two roads diverge in my head.

people as filters vs. computers as filters.

what I have.  and don't.
what I do and don't need.

artificial air
artificial lights
cars(?)
[The Machine Stops.  E.M.Forster]

[my apartment space] under scrutiny.  (attr. Fritz Donnelly)
(something like that)

the art is about the media.  do the painting, installation, performance, etc., but ________.  (Nico V)

(with video) the sheer quantity of media I could produce in a rather short  time is rather astounding. 

smoothed facial detection as a cinematic camera motion--tracking, intentional.  
watching it watch. 
watch it look and identify.  let the viewer select next, previous, up/down.

it should be easier, like this. 

FACES
NOT FACES

FACE U NOT FACE

------------------
|IMAGE  AVG      | 
|       SELECTION|
------------------
it's a composition

no context.

davina asleep. 
abby.
mousmi.
post-breakup nichol. 
I am wrong. 

slipping glimpser. 

between here and a kind of fleshiness (sorry tivon!)
A sense of fleshiness prevails.

can media (texts, images, etc.) have dual, triple, multiple natures?

it's funny having to purchase multiple cameras (for ex: fritz d with pocket came, DSLR for video).

stimulus response theory. 

no more throw-away conversation.  throw-away experience. 

doing something on video so the camera can see me.  is like hedging something in the video for the computer to find. 

do something so the computer will notice. 
do something so people will notice. 
not so different.  same thing, right? explain. 

Marek.  Joe Davis. 
"Joe was able to get into this facility and broadcast a signal to outer space."

Probability of a monkey typing "ham":
"h" 1 in 50
"ha" 1 in 50 x 1 in 50 = 1 in 2,500
"ham" 1 in 50 x 1 in 50 x 1 in 50 = 125,000

Eschatology (end of times) search for ETI is like religion.  

develop a highly personal (idiosyncratic) patterns of thought and habit. 
The great Palimpsest.

computer!  you miss all the good parts!
    (like my grandparents kissing)

you:
    mute.  inscrutable. 
    missing all the action.

me:
    impatient.  unfocused. 
    rude? 

you miss all the obvious stuff.

the "eye" is looking faster than the film is playing.

When I bought Bob's motorhome, I got furniture, refrigerator, and linen, the whole kit and caboodle.

-- notepad 20120529 --


Opened 6/19/2011 9:38 PM, No due date, Never closes

my idea of connected is to be in constant contact with my sketchbooks, my ideas, my notes , my lists, my images, my projects, my objects, my friends, my family, my work. so a smartphone is good for this. a website is good for this. ssh, ftp, etc., are good for this. my web-host is good for this. the internet is good for this. wifi is good for this. 

sometimes notebooks and pen and paper are better than touch screens (most of the time in my opinion). I do like keyboards for typing, but I don't always want to type. 


UW opened officially on November 4, 1861, as the Territorial University of Washington. 


With the worlds brightest riflescope, featuring RainGuard HD, youre fully equipped to strike with lethal precision in the dimmest, wettest, most unforgiving circumstances.

relationship between surrealist automatism and digital over-documentation.

language as an incitement to action

richard serra's verb list.

what happened to Pat Oldenburg?



What we are witnessing, rather, is the raw, liberating and terrifying emergence of a distinctly modern way of understanding, and trying to assuage, some of the pain and intensity of being alive.

...the most unsettling aspect of A Dangerous Method may be the links it suggests between sex and thinking. The mind is both slave and master of the bodys appetites, and the absurd and terrifying task of stabilizing that dynamic, in theory and in practice, is embraced equally by the film and the fragile, serious historical figures who inhabit it.

There were 9.3 billion pounds of standard mail  the low-cost postage category available to mass advertisers  but only 3.7 billion of first-class mail.

Direct-mail advertising generates an estimated 10 billion pounds of waste each year, costing cities an estimated $1 billion to dispose of it, according to Catalog Choice.

The book ends with a look at current developments in the world of hypertext, where word and image have at last found an essential unity

that's the sound of the police. fuck that fuck that's the sound of police.

secret world. (solipsist) 


This is a vintage 1950's spring rocking horse made in Colliersville Tennessee. Label says The Wonder Horse. Rocking horse measures about 40 x 36 x 24". The horse is plastic with wooden foot pegs.

It is well used with scuffs, but not damaged or broken. It has some surface rust on the metal support. All original, it has not been restored or touched-up.

Great for holiday decorating.



#611 verizon cancel assurion coverage.

32 x 74" 206 755 6992.


the hollow land. IDF palestine israel. 
susan howe. the europe of trusts.
joe sacco on palestine israel massacre.

breakup paintings.
the drunken hookup painting. your boundaries are down. 
le narc alice deright. 

solipsist. put something urgent at stake. _____ has a gun to their head and you are talking them out of it. back from the edge of a building. through this system. 



2. Automatic writing, by Robert Ashley; DRAM (Online service) eMusic.
Language: No Linguistic Content  


the universal solution. 
text as universal solvent. 
Alkahest is a hypothetical universal solvent, having the power to dissolve| decompose every other substance, including gold.

An universal solvent is a substance that has the ability to dissolve any material. Its discovery was one of the best known goals of the alchemists. [1] (from harry potter wiki)
paracelsus

text, like water

from karpen crit:
set design.

Schopenhauer (The World as Will and Representation, Book II): 
... as a serious conviction solipsism could be found only in a madhouse: as such it would then need not so much a refutation as a cure.


notes on solipsist 20120204
"talk is cheap"

punch list:
create default behavior, for when no-one is in the room. 
play back composition of previous sounds when no-one is in the room.
I have a dialog with it, perform.
find set pieces. map/art lamp. shelves. microphone.

keywords: "art" "life" -> derived from script

relation between robert (the me I am now) and the robert I was a few years ago
"you: mute, inscrutable."
"you miss all the best parts"

hidden text, secret text. give away the code. 

portrait of robert as robert through language

The Analytical Engine has no pretensions whatever to originate anything. It can do whatever we know how to order it to perform. It can follow analysis; but it has no power of anticipating any analytical relations or truths.

markov chains, compositional mimicry (for sequential inputs)

what text to use? the idea that a text has an essence or (statistically) definite content, to be used, capture, deployed in your project.


auris sensate
camera sensate
cubiculum, locus, CELLA
room ->
THALAMUS
CENACULUM
CUBICULUM
CAENACULUM
COENACULUM
SPATIUM
TECTUM
LOCUS
AEDIS

LOCUS SENSATE


faculty crit 2/13:
why not go for the heart of it?
me and receipt printer on stage in improvisatory dialog
face swapping ????
technical strategies aren't artistic concepts
with the solipsist, it is as if I have turned the body inside out. the organs are spread on the walls around the room.
reminds james hughes of spam-the fragments of text make sense individually but there is no linear flow or argument. 
i think it is interesting that a set of text I have produced and am interested in has similar qualities to spam.
juan wants feedback to happen just through the receipt printer, no speech in the room. others agree. this is a bit distracting, the speech. 

documentation of people interacting with it
as if it could have an agenda (face-graft)
text of quotes--if each of these characters could say anything you wanted them to, what would that be?
    (watching doug aitken)
    a bit slick
i like their resistance to programming, programmability, casting, scriptability. 
inherent fixedness of characters, persona, face, accent, speech. 
resolute. 
unassimilable.

revisit 'hey bruce', the script, and the idea of it not going anywhere..

class oldenburg. using a signature work to represent someone as opposed to using their face.
result of having bad video of the subject or no video of the subject.
surveillance-ish.

the system should be a thing, with an agenda, so that it has a character(nature?) which the viewer has the experience of. dictate!, as richard says.

Abe Lincoln
Amelia Earhardt
Robert Rauschenberg


We Can Remember It for You Wholesale
replacements, substitutes, proxies


Not that theres anything wrong with any of this. Rather, its the concept of authenticity itself thats problematic, especially when its linked to honesty and sincerity, which are easy to assert but impossible to prove, and to a serious mode of expressing oneself, which admits of no irony  and therefore no humor. 

prurient. 
lascivious.

Shot transition detection.
Recall, Precision, F1. 
Cost: All of the above algorithms complete in O(n)  that is to say they run in linear time  where n is the number of frames in the input video. The algorithms differ in a constant factor that is determined mostly by the image resolution of the video.
Usually the following three measures are used to measure the quality of a cut detection algorithm:
Recall is the probability that an existing cut will be detected.
Precision is the probability that an assumed cut in fact a cut.
F1 is a combined measure that results in high value if, and only if, both precision and recall result in high values.


Our inventions are not to be pretty toys which distract our attention from serious things. They are but improved means to an unimproved end... We are in great haste to construct a magnetic telegraph from Maine to Texas, but Maine and Texas, it may be, have nothing important to say.


nasturtium seeds
nasturtiums



    matthew barney with better cinematography, sound, etc., but even less coherent narrative.


identity
transgender, sexual transition as claim on reality, audience attention, value. 


Yes the slippery-slopism that Scalia was engaging in seemed purely hyperbolic and not at all constructive or instructive. That is, there is no response that Verrili could've give that would've dispelled that from his head.

reading reference, proof of having read.
evidence. concrete evidence. making reading concrete.

reading reference, microcosm of language and thought. 
language model. data set.

a still executed by an embittered disciple of Matisse call "Red Table Cloth", we may allow the painting to be somewhat more thinly applied in this case... (Danto 'Works of Art and Mere Real Things')

I like this idea of claiming to be the spiritual inheritor (embittered disciple) of Matisse. At this distance in time, space. this remove.

Like Pope.L's claim to be Ryman's son, returned to burn down the master's house.


Leah - 
not so diagrammatic drawings on the drawing machine. would like to see it really draw. 
isn't that the point, it can't?

face-swap 
are transparency maps (cross-blending) what it's about as far as making realizing meshes of self to other?

abramovic. lips of thomas. isn't that inevitable.
	sagging, fading, leaking. end.


running face tracking on jeremijenko good magazine interview. 
computer vision has nothing to do with the aesthetics + conventions of cinematography. You would have a train totally different systems of classifiers and feature detectors to see anything about the way camera images are constructed. for instance natalie shot in profile with her student in focus in the background. 

this could be because I have a poorly tuned detector. 
it keeps missing all of the interesting parts and faces that are in fact on screen.

drawing machine. same XY pattern, no pressure. (pencil drawing). 
printer? (kinkos) soulless, keeps the viewer out. 

frozen in amber. suspended. in slow motion. syrupy.

navi-x

looking through circuitry
The Algorithms and Principles of Non-photorealistic Graphics Artistic Rendering and Cartoon Animation. Weidong Geng 2010.

google xbmc navi-x etc a closer relation to production with tv... i'm only slowed by the rate of edit and schedule of tv, not second-hand release.


these language processing projects began with two-pronged desire. A desire to illustrate the failings of artificial intelligence/machine learning technologies, and a (sincere) desire to manage my situation-to organize my thought. To find an optimal solution to the problem of finite time and a fertile set of ideas.

I don't believe that machines can come up with good solutions-they are always only tools, extensions. So perhaps this line of work was supposed to be a virtuosic technical demonstration ('look ma, I can program!'), set to fail, animated by my desire for real solutions. 

an over-arching theme of research on myself. 
these systems are tools for self-analysis. stimuli to produce responses.

for internal circulation only


thoughts on qual show:
more or less materials would be fine. the rauschenberg diorama. the computing history xerox prints. 
little drawings. 
portfolios.
big drawings. 

is this a sign of some failing? a poorly understood practice? failure to penetrate deeply enough into the matter at hand? 
I don't know. On the one hand I always want to see my ideas continue, move, expand, grow, stay alive. on the other I feel that projects should reach some ideal form and realization. I want to put them to rest. 

face-tracking is the reality filter.
accept face-tracking as the reality filter. do not believe in video files that do not show faces. 

speech recognition

structure my discourse

remediate, depict



what is a sketching practice that is a finished art form?
what artists are great sketchers?

these teams (NASA/SPACEX) ran through simulations just as they would in the shuttle days. real-time simulations so that the team can see what it is like to work with one another.
http://www.ustream.tv/channel/6540154


I swear the earth shall surely be complete to him or her who shall be complete / I swear the earth remains jagged and broken only to him or her who remains jagged and broken. (walt whitman, song of the rolling eart)


The technology used in the study could easily be contained on an implantable chip, Dr. Deadwyler said, and it is possible to envision a system that could help people with brain damage.

The whole idea is that the device would generate an output pattern that bypasses the damaged area, providing an alternative connection in the brain, he said.

Many hurdles remain. Decision making, like memory, is a multifaceted process that involves many neural circuits, depending on the decision being made.

A device focused on just one circuit is likely to be very limited. But not long ago, even a simple neural prosthesis would have seemed like science fiction.


dreams and beasts are two keys by which we find out the secrets of our own nature. They are test objects. (R W Emerson)


treat myself as a data source

Leonardo da Vinci began painting the Mona Lisa in 1503 or 1504 in Florence, Italy.[19] According to Leonardo's contemporary, Giorgio Vasari, "...after he had lingered over it four years, left it unfinished...."[5] Leonardo, later in his life, is said to have regretted "never having completed a single work"


the rolling twomeyverse


a general method (with longing)

